# Simple_Bejewled_Game
just for fun

Gen. Li
Bejeweled

In my project, I try to implement a simple match three game which has some properties:
1. only veritcal and horizontal match dots can be remove;
2. player only can swich the dots with the next dots vertically or horizontally.
3. after the match dots are remove the dots over it should drop to the position of match dots without any change.

My game logic:
Strat/Restart button will start new game or restart one during the game proccessing. continue will continue after level up or continue the level that player failed. in my logic continue will reset the points and matrix.  the proccess bar is time counter which count the time. score is increasing after find the match if has mutiple matches it will increase dependently.therefore there is no free credits when each level start. the score depents on how many match the player has. if the scores reach certain amounts or no possible move anymore the player will get the level up!  the details is down below. 

 
when click the star/restart, game will generate a matrix, then i modify a help function that is fillRandom(), i add couple of new functions which is my core algorithm. first of all, findMatch() check each tiles as  0,0 0,1 0,2 0,3 0,...... this will give me a horizontal match. i just use a nested loop to do it check each color is match to the next one. after horizontally check i go to vertically check by change the orders of nested loop. finally put all match dots into the var match[]. then i use same algorithm to implement my findMove() function. which is check each veritcal and horizontal dots and swap if there is match then swap back then push it into move[]. another important method is remove the match. my alogrithm uses the match to find those match dots then set their color to dark which is same as background. then i search each dots from bottom to top if it's dark var shift will +1 if 3 match will be 3 if 4 will be 4.....until searched all dots. those shift will set to dot's text which needs to shift (means stack on those match dots) for those are match and no need to swich(means under the match) will set 0 to their text. then i implment another method shiftDots() to shift. because shift dots only happen vertically. then i just need to search each dots from bottom to top and if its color is dark or not if not get it text as shift  check if the shift is bigger than 3 or not if yes means we find the dots that needs to swap then swap with its i coordinate + shift means the match dots then do it recursively then we shift the dots with match dots. it will drop those dots over the match dots to its postion without anychange (an important property). removeMatch() and shiftDots() will be called recursively in order to complete some animations. next chanllenge will be button cilck to swap the player selected dots to next dots. here i just modify the help function buttonClicked(); i just use its i and j to complete my algorithm. first i create a array clicked, when each botton was cliked it will push the coordinate into cliecked[]; then when another button clicked it will do something. here are different case. if clicked button is same as the previous one the function will do nothing and clicked will be empty. then if clicked is valid (i == clicked[0].r - 1 || j == clicked[0].c - 1 || i == clicked[0].r + 1 || j == clicked[0].c + 1). then findmatch if no matches swap back otherwise resolveMatch to remove and shift them. 
